[D1] D1 RR Documentation (#20922)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: src/content/docs/d1/tutorials/test-read-replication/index.mdx

<Steps>
1. Copy the following code and save it as a `schema.sql` file in the Worker directory you created in step 1:

    ```sql
    DROP TABLE IF EXISTS Customers;
    CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS Customers (CustomerId INTEGER PRIMARY KEY, CompanyName TEXT, ContactName TEXT);
    INSERT INTO Customers (CustomerID, CompanyName, ContactName) VALUES (1, 'Alfreds Futterkiste', 'Maria Anders'), (4, 'Around the Horn', 'Thomas Hardy'), (11, 'Bs Beverages', 'Victoria Ashworth'), (13, 'Bs Beverages', 'Random Name');
    ```

2. Initialize your database to run remotely.

    ```sh
    npx wrangler d1 execute <DATABASE_NAME> --remote --file=./schema.sql
    ```
</Steps>

## 5. Write a Worker file which queries the table

Write a Worker file which queries the table and outputs both the results with the query latency.

```js
export default {
  async fetch(request, env) {
    const { pathname } = new URL(request.url);
    const companyName1 = `Bs Beverages`;
    const stmt = env.DB.prepare(`SELECT * FROM Customers WHERE CompanyName = ?`);
    const session = env.DB.withSession("first-unconstrained");

    if (pathname === `/run`) {

>     const tsStart1 = Date.now();

Reviewer: Indentation needs fixing?

    const { results, meta } = await stmt.bind(companyName1).run();
    const d1Duration1 = Date.now() - tsStart1;
    return Response.json({ results, meta, d1Duration1 });

    } else if (pathname === `/withsession`) {
    const tsStart2 = Date.now();
    const { results, meta } = await session.prepare(`SELECT * FROM Customers WHERE CompanyName = ?`).bind(companyName1).run();
    const d1Duration2 = Date.now() - tsStart2;
    return Response.json({ results, meta, d1Duration2 });
    }
    return new Response(
    `Welcome to the D1 read replication demo!

  Add one of the following slugs below to see the effects of using D1 read replication.

  \n/run - Queries the table without using read replication

  \n/withsession - Queries the table using read replication (using "first-unconstrained")

  \nUse the two options to compare the difference in query latency.`
    );
  }
  };
```

## 6. Deploy Worker

Deploy your Worker.

```sh
npx wrangler deploy
```

## 7. Compare query latency

> Once deployed, you can compare the query latency when using read replication.

Reviewer: Again, using the Sessions API does NOT mean you have replication enable.

Here, there should be a step 6 to actually enable replication using the REST API endpoint we will add.

- Use the `/run` URL to send a read query without read replication.
- Use the `/withsession` URL to send a read query with read replication.

> For both queries, the Worker script returns the `meta` object, which contains `served-by-primary` boolean field. This field indicates whether your request was served by the primary database instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For both queries, the Worker script returns the `meta` object, which contains the `served_by_primary` and `served_by_region` fields. These field denotes the location of the database instance that processed your query, and if it was the primary or not.
```

> The `d1Duration` variable shows the query latency.

Reviewer: Your own `d1Duration` measures the whole round-trip to the D1 database and back, not only the query execution latency.

There is also a new `meta.timings.sql_duration_ms` for the SQL query itself (same value as the older `meta.duration` field)

Author: To check - if we wanted to gauge the effect of RR, we'd have to check the full round-trip, right? Would RR change the SQL query execution latency?

Reviewer: Replication doesn't change the SQL query execution. The end to end latency of the D1 request is what will be impacted.
